---
layout: post
title: Data Science D'oh
---

We were tasked with examining data scientist starting salaries as were posted on the Indeed website.  We accumulated a robust sample of starting salaries across several different cities in the US in order to get an idea of what factors could be important in terms of cities and key words used in the job title.  After establishing a break in the range of salaries determined by the median of the entire sample, we took a look at the effects on being in the higher half or the lower half and found that while some cities seemed to be neutral or had a wider spectrum of salaries, other cities seemed to be skewed to the lower end of the range.  Aspiring data scientist might be wise to avoid job-searching in Austin and Los Angeles and stick more to the traditional hubs of Seattle and San Francisco (although some would say that the cost of living in both cities more than offset any perceived increase in pay).  Likewise having a couple of impressive words in your job title also implies you're being paid at better than the standard rate - being referred to as a "lead" or a "senior" job title comes with a slightly better chance of being in the upper half of pay.  We also took a look at the difference in pay based on jobs posted directly by companies or by recruiting agencies - we didn't find any significant difference between recruiting agency posted jobs and direct postings by companies.  

One important caveat to all our findings is that the dataset is very small and not necessarily indicative of the broader dataset.  We're examing job postings that have salary information posted, but doing a quick numbers calculation, we find that only 4% of the original dataset has the requisite salary data, so we're really looking at a small subset of our dataset.  Also there is an inherent bias to the salary information, as many of the salary postings appear to be for public institutions (either government or universities), skewing salary information presumably slightly lower due to the nature of the institutions posting the salary data.  Public institutions are required by law or mandate to post the salary information, whereas private institutions are not governed by such requirements; one can presume that private institution salaries would be significantly higher than public institutions.  So, if one puts the entire project in perspective, we're performing analyses on a small subset of data which we know to have an inherent bias to public institution salaries, thus not givin a true reflection of the actual salaries of data scientist job postings.  (Essentially violating several of the points made in our study design discussion.)  But, as stressed several times over the past week, it's all about the learning.  

